Code Selection: Snake_3-the_snakening by Nick Daly
https://ndaly94.github.io/snake_3-the_snakening/

What the Code is Doing:
We have script, HTML, and CSS files, we know what they do. Some images and sounds files are also in the project.

Taking a look at the HTML, we have a standard head tag, and the body tag. In the body tag, an unordered list 
includes a home list item, a difficulty list item with its own unordered list of a dropdown class with items,
that select the easy, medium, hard difficulty. A high scores, and credits list items are also listed. This elements
are then styled in a horizontal and colorful fashion in CSS. There is a logo and title header and a div for the player 
score, the contants of which will change as the game is played. Below this section is where the main game takes place.
Nick is uses a canvas tag that creates a board with a specified height and width that the canvas tag will draw on to 
the page.

Looking at the JS, we can see the mechanics of the game, the constants define the colors of the board and snake
and their borders. Then the state variables are defined, the inital starting coordinates of each piece of the 
snake initally there are 4. The score is set to 0. A changing_direction variable is initalized to false which 
tracks the moving direction of the snake. And finally, empty x & y coordinate varibles are initalized along with
the x & y velocity variables specify the speed at which the snake will move in their respective directions. x is
initally set to 20 so the snake moves right 20 every time the board is rendered.The cached elements are defined,
of which we have only one, the snake board and canvas requires a setContext method on the cached element which
tells javascript to make the board 2d. These are all set in the global scope.

3 functions start the game, init, render_food, and a keydown eventlistener which calls a change_direction function.
render_food creates a rectangle at the food_x & food_y (from the global scope) with its specfied colors. The change_direction
function checks takes in the event parameter and first checks which key is pressed. Based off that info, we first
we move the velocity of the snake accordingly. The init function checks every 100ms by having a setTimeout for 100ms
but calls it self each time the function is run. The function calls the has_game_ended, clearBoard, renderFood, 
move_Snake, and render_Snake. The has_game_ended function checks if the snake has intercepted itself or if it has 
hit the walls of the board. and returns true if any of those conditions are met. moveSnake increments the snake position
according to the velocities set and manipulated in the eventlistener and if the the position of the snake head collides
with the positon of the food we add a new rectangle (head) to our snake and update the points and render food again.

FeedBack:

Hey Nick, the game is awesome and works great! When I first saw your presentation I became super curious to how
you did the functionality of the game as it seemed simple at first but as I began to think about how I would
implement functionality a lot of questions popped up in my head so I really wanted to see how you made it work.
I really appreciated how you commented your thought process it made it really easy for me to see what was going on.
I see you used canvas and its methods alot in this project which is something I had no idea about but I can see how
it is super useful and something I will have to look into for further research. So all in all great job! I ended up spending
quite a bit of time just playing the game for fun lol. There are some things I think you could work on; it looks like there 
were some additonal functionality you wanted add such as a model,a highscore board and difficulty level but couldnt 
or didn't get the time so I would like to see how you would add such things as well. For a model or starting/ending screen,
Something I learned in my project was how to create a div with its own complex HTML & styling and append to the body of the page on which 
you could let the user choose their difficulty and then once that selection is made, remove the div and run the game. For a highscore
board you could also ask the user to enter their name and then would need to do some backend stuff to create a database of the scores
(which is something we are learning now!). Furthermore, you could use similar logic to create an end screen too if you wanted as the game 
just halts right now and the only way to restart is to refresh the page. I was initally thinking about using a class for the snake and having
all the functionality of the snake in that class as methods, is that something you thought of and tried as well? Did it work or if not was this
way much better? I am also curious as to why you chose a setTimeout in the init function that calls itself every 100ms rather than a setInterval
which I imagine could work similarly. There is also one bug I have noticed that when you press the key
opposite to the direction that snake is moving the game ends, I see that you have put in a prevention to this in the change_direction function
but it doesnt seem to work fully as it is. Finally, one other thing I would like to recomend is just to structure the code in a more seperated way
creating comment headers for all you constants, state variables, cached elements, eventlisteners and functions, just helps the reader (and yourself)read the code 
a bit more clearly. But thats about it I really enjoyed reading your code and getting a view into your head and your thought process it was
pretty cool! You have a great understanding about this stuff and it shows, best of luck for you future projects! If you ever wanna reach out
for something, feel free and I can do the same to you!
Gunish